The wolf climbed the stairs with its teeth bared in anticipation. I hid beneath my sheets as if I was made of the same cloth, but the wolf didnt know I could see it in the mirror across the hall. It tiptoed to the top and stopped, pivoting on itself and looking towards my room. Saliva dripped from its readied fangs, and made every hair on my body stand to attention.

Even more frightening was the thought that I was the wolf.

The War
I miss the war, he says. The clock clicks to itself. She doesnt answer. He offers her a cracker with her tea but she doesnt look keen, so he puts it closer and she takes it gladly. Shes been coming more often lately. He sits down in his worn chair, like a seventy year old foot fitting into a twenty year old shoe.

I miss my friends, of course. But I miss the war. I miss the shit food, the excitement. A lorry ploughs past, blowing wind and spraying gutter water into the face of his house. He doesnt need to look up to know the windows are dribbling murky water. A dim, stagnant light is peering into the room through the weeping window. The shadow generated by its tears falls onto the gas fire that sits in front of the chimney breast, and it falls onto the photograph; a very old photograph of a very young woman. A record is playing in the next room.

We danced to this song, so many times. She is still munching on the cracker, she doesnt reply. An odd smile comes about his face. He looks up into her beady little eyes, why doesnt she talk? Why doesnt she say something? The dribbling light confuses him for a moment - it plays tricks with his eyes. The sixties wallpaper spirals in the periphery. The golden sheen of the clock isnt there anymore; dust sits on it like marzipan. Her neck extends as if she is about to comment. She doesnt, she just puts her head to one side and makes a low noise.

Why do you bother me like this? Three years and you still keep coming here. Fuck off! he pulls himself out of his old chair and throws his tea at her, Just fuck off! she flies from her chair into the air, and lands on the photograph of the young woman. He stands, hunched, his chest heaving. The bird puts its head to one side, still chewing on a piece of cracker. He closes his eyes as hard as he can, puts out his arms, straightens his back and begins to move his feet in time with the music. Where tears would well in the corner of his eyes there are only wrinkles, fold upon fold, year upon year.

The record finishes. His eyes open. The bird is gone. The noose is still dangling.

The Star
And now the dark was rising. Screeches and screams came from the darkness, and it was hard to tell beast from man. His chest heaved. The jungle was alive with its own pulse that groaned, creaked and howled. But now he was free. The dark in this place was unlike any other hed experienced before  it gave one the impression that one could see farther with ones eyes shut. Not only that, the insatiable crawling movement felt all around the climbing limbs of the trees added to the symphony of life that petrified even the commanding officers in the dead of night, especially if it was a new sensation.

Gunshots echoed through and over the vast expanse of this maze. He knew they would come after him. It was said they knew this labyrinth better than a man knows his own town, it wouldnt take them long. Another man had begged him not to go, theyll kill us all, he insisted.

Something huge fell from the canopy nearby. He froze. It took a few seconds but it jumped to its feet and ran through the nearest clearing, wailing as it thumped over the ground. Then nothing but the endless vibrating hum of every other creature. The sound of water came to him through the noise. He followed it carefully, feeling with his feet as he found his way over the unpredictable terrain. Darkness persisted, but he eventually came to a clearing and made out a busy stream that bobbled along irrespective of the gunshots. He dropped to his knees and gladly threw water into his face with his hands. He made his way under a rock by the stream and waited.

He found a sharp rock, placed it between his feet and rubbed the bamboo shoots that bound his hands against it. They soon frayed and splintered. He rubbed his wrists that were bleeding slightly from the pressure.

Hours passed. He drifted in and out of sleep. He thought he heard a man scream nearby but after a few moments it repeated and he was confident enough that it was no man. His pulse steadied. Water-dwellers made a nice change from the tree-crawlers that had engulfed him. Their creaks and groans soothed him in and out of consciousness.

He began to pray. Thoughts of loved-ones back home had pierced the fright of the darkness and all the beastliness around him. Tears welled in his eyes. Screams persisted. Minutes then hours passed, his knees locked in place.

Then it happened. A magnificent light zipped across the sky, lighting-up the entire jungle, even down to ground-level, showing every tree and tributary. It cracked into the forest across the stream so hard that a huge tree fell loudly and disturbed all the life around it. Animals sang, boomed and cried all around. For a moment all was eerily silent, every man and animal stopped for a second, then continued their busy noise.

But he still saw it. Across the stream, through the seemingly impenetrable jungle, it was glowing.

The Light
Out of the murk the car leered. She turned the knob and listened for a legible voice, but the radio couldnt penetrate the dense cloud. All she heard was the wail and cry of the radio static. The car gave out a few coughs from within its guts, lurching forward every time it sneezed and grumbled until it gave up its struggle. The engine died and it came rolling to a halt as she steered it off the road. Her ears had become used to the mechanical workings of the car from within its belly and now that they were silent, she became afraid. A book sat beside her. She picked it up, turned the first few leaves, past her photograph, and read to herself: Silence is the new scream.

Minutes passed like hours and she checked the rear-view mirrors to see if anything was creeping up on her. There was a monster peering at her, hairy with its teeth bared, but there was nothing real; she blinked and it had gone. She wondered to herself why she wanted to be scared, why her mind wanted there to be monsters and ghouls like she had written about in her books. She decided to wait for someone to pass and get their attention. Someone would help. It thrilled her to think of the danger of asking a stranger for help. She locked the doors of her car.

It got dark. Nobody had passed. She couldnt believe it. Countless times she had been on this road behind five or even ten cars with maybe the same behind her, all in sight. Now when she needed just one, none had passed. It was eerie. She had heard nothing in such a long time that the ringing in her ears had become deafening. She turned on the interior light and took a pen from her bag. With it she scrawled on her hands and arms out of nervousness. She drew flowers and rainbows in the half-light until her arms were covered with the sketches. She pressed so hard her arms were red raw from the pressure. The fog had grown thicker, denser. It pressed against the windows of the car and peered in at her.

She stopped her scrawling and began to cry. She was now genuinely scared of being alone. The thrill and the romance of fear had vanished, and only fear remained. She heard a noise outside, several voices coming closer. She turned the interior light off and shrank down in her seat, tears streaming from her eyes. She could hear the mud under the feet of whoever it was, coming closer. Figures now pressed against the windows of her car, peering in. She froze in hope of not being seen.

A man opened the door and put his head into the car, turning on the interior light. He sat in the drivers seat and bent around. Nothing. On the passengers seat sat a book, one of hers. He opened it up and read to himself: Silence is the new scream.

The Dream
That ones like Italy she says, with a frown.
That ones like your mother he says. They both laugh. The sun is beating down on them, and makes it seem warmer than it is.
I like the ones that climb into the sky, like the clouds you draw when youre five. He smiles. Hes always loved her childish side.
A warm breeze flows over them like a wave on the shore.
I love the sea. The air is so different. It feels like home she adds. A man walks past with a dog.
Lets move here then, he says through a smile. She twists her neck to look at him.
Seriously? she asks, in a higher pitch.
Why not? He holds his hands to his forehead like a baseball cap. They are both laid on a grassy mound that is angled towards the sun and the sea. They are both completely naked. She turns back toward the sun, squinting through a smile.
I love you so much. She says. Their hands cross and clasp together like an old womans purse.

That ones sharp. I dont like the sharp ones. They should all be big round beasts she says, tickling her flat stomach. The sun momentarily goes behind a cloud, and its as if someone has drawn a giant curtain upon the world. The wind goes from mild to bitter, and they both shrink into their bodies for a moment like tortoises. There is an explosion of light, and the suns blade comes reaching through the atmosphere and through their skin; they are revived. The wind is restored as if its being blown over hot coals. They are smiling so hard, or is it a frown? Its too hard to tell.

Listen, he says after five or ten minutes of silence I know youre having a hard time with your work and your family. I want something for you to look forward to. She looks bemused, but interested. You know Im a dreamer, but dreams can be good. Not all of them are overdone. He stands up. He has something in his hand. She cant quite see because the sun is too bright. He moves closer to her, blocking the sunshine. She can make out his silhouette.
Marry me, Kate. The sound of the sea is impenetrable for a moment.
Yes. I will. They embrace. He hasnt given her the ring yet, its still in his hand, in the case. He is jumping and shouting, the ring flies from its little velvety box. His inane yelling turns into some loud intake of air, as if hes been plunged into ice water. He is reaching, out-stretched. He is falling. Down. Out of sight. He is gone. Her face is aching from the smile/frown. Now it feels almost nice as her face contorts into ugliness. Screaming. Raising. She is too late; she looks over the drop only to see his body strewn upon the rocks like a chalk outline. She cannot maintain her yelp  his head is smashed open, it is a treasure chest burst open too soon, and the seagulls are pillaging its riches before too long.

She wakes sharply. It is cold, and she has fallen asleep on her arm, which she cannot feel. She is one her side, and looks up and out to sea. Her belly is spilling over her jeans  she sucks it in. The clouds have turned from magnificent white balloons to streaky, jagged furrows like those on top of a shepherds pie, forked-in. She turns over when her arm lets her, and he is there. Hes not the same, but hes there. He is fatter, and asleep. She goes to feel his pocket, but there is no velvet box. The wind stabs against her skin. 

Hes there, but hes not the same.

The Desert
Twenty minute shifts were arranged for the sentries that stood on-guard in the watch-towers, for that was as much as any man could stand in the heat of the midday sun. The fortification had resisted invasion for over a century; some questioned the need for it at all. Some said that the enemy wouldnt come across the sands but from the sky itself. The sun, and its beating rays were the enemy. A man clad with dust climbed the stairs of the inner wall, to the tower. When he reached the top he took his water container and tipped it towards the sky, showering his face in warm, slightly salty water. It far from quenched his thirst. The sentry whose shift was ending hung his head in a dose, pulling it back up when he realised a superior might see him and berate him in front of the other men. He stood to attention when the new sentry spilled water all over the stone floor, thinking he was that superior. He sighed with relief when he realised it was his old friend. The new sentry took the binoculars and patted his friend on the back as he passed down the stairs.

The binoculars felt dusty in his hands as he lifted them to his face. Everything got sand on or in it  watches stopped because sand clogged-up the mechanics inside, food tasted of it when chewed and sometimes a man could feel it passing out as he took a piss. There was a joke among the men that the air they breathed was half sand. He peered through the lenses and out as far as the horizon went. Nothing but sand. Every direction faced was filled with sand underfoot. The nearest town was three days away. A few times a year one of the men would lose their mind and go out in the night, in a vain attempt to escape, their minds not registering that the temperature fell to below zero at night, and the insurmountable distance to the nearest anything would take their lives. The superiors wouldnt even bother rounding up a search-party once they knew there was a man missing. They would die in less than a day  if the conditions didnt take them then the jackals and vultures would.

There must have been sand on the lenses. He rubbed at them with one of his sleeves. The heat rising from the floor of the desert created waves that distorted sight across a great distance, and he was trying to look some ten miles into the distance. He thought he could make out a dark shape that flittered and danced in among the waves of heat. Perhaps it was an optical illusion. Most men didnt bother using the binoculars because they knew theyd see something that wasnt there and get a reputation for being out of his tree. A man held a lot of respect in the base if the other men didnt suspect him raving mad. The general protocol was to stand there and pretend you were scouring the horizon whilst actually trying to rest enough to feel better for it but not actually losing consciousness and falling forty feet to the floor.

It grew, and came closer, he was sure of it. The next man came to take his post. He climbed down the stairs and filled his water container from the well. He sat nervously in the shade watching the tower, to see if the new sentry spotted the figure in the distance. Nothing. He stood in the tower and squinted into the distance. Hours passed, men frequently went up and down the tower without realising what was coming closer. He escalated the steps of the tower to its summit and told the man he was being relieved. Now the sun had begun to sink longer sentry shifts were allowed. With the binoculars he could now visibly make out the shape  it was a man! All day he had been out there, dragging his feet forward toward this fortification. Time passed, the sentry refused to be replaced, the replacements laughed and turned around back down the stairs.

The figure was now in sight to the naked eye, but no other sentry had spotted it. It grew with every minute and was now less than a mile away. It was a tall figure covered with black robes that lunged from one foot to the other, leaning as it progressed. Still the sentry told no one. He felt compelled to watch every step as the figure got within a few hundred yards of the door to the base.

A gust of wind came across the desert, seemingly from nowhere that lifted the sand from the floor and into the air. Nobody could see through this instant, unpredictable storm that rendered every man deaf and blind for its duration. The sentry fell to the floor of the tower, sheltering from the violent combination of wind and sand. As quick as it came, the storm died. Sand fell from the air like rainfall. The sentry climbed to his feet and peered down at the gates where he last saw the figure. All that remained were the black robes, strewn across the sand, limp, figureless.



Writers Reflection
I went into the workshop environment this year with a pretty grim view of my enjoying it or it contributing to either the quantity or quality of my work. In previous years the open forum method of criticism has done little for my confidence and even less in contribution to my improvement as a writer.

Perhaps it has been the change of personnel that has helped me, or even my first experience of Scott Thurston as a tutor/mentor, but I have felt my confidence grow and my work-rate increase. I have also found micro-fiction. My favourite genre of writing was previously autobiography, but I felt drained by revisiting the corners of my life that brought back some miserable memories despite the production of work I was actually quite pleased with as an end product. It was time for something else. My first idea was the one I stuck with  to write weird stories. Micro-fiction gave me a platform to set a scene and reveal a plot that had so many possibilities it was left virtually ambiguous. Of course, the text being independent and final, my input is unnecessary. As readers and consumers, we determine a work of art by our own perceptions, rightly or wrongly. Micro-fiction gave me the chance to construct pieces of art that were independent windows that a reader could manage in minutes but consider for hours.

If I could call anything my journal, it would be a book which I kept beside my bed and wrote sporadic notes, feelings, and ideas in that would ultimately all contribute in some way. My journal was not a comprehensively rounded, methodical exposition that read as a story itself, it was if anything a rambling, incomprehensible mess. But in some ways that is what I am submitting in my portfolio. I didnt write these stories to make sense of them, I wrote them out of desire, and felt a feeling that has been fleeting at the best of times during my stay at Salford: I felt the need for expression.

Admittedly I wasnt manic with a need to purge words, but a new instinct was born  I wrote when I didnt have to. Not all of it made sense, and most of it ended up with obscenities next to it as a footnote just in case anyone read it thinking I was proud of it, but it didnt go in the bin with lines through it! For me that is progress.

Its pretty clear to me and everyone that has read my work this year  regardless of the quality of it  I have enjoyed writing. I will definitely pursue this genre, I am still in disbelief that I have never explored it before (I can remember reading short stories from the age of ten). There is something about the way powerful scenarios can be constructed in which the drama really drives itself; where the plot doesnt feel contrived or set on a specific course. Whenever I imagined the beginning of a new work it came to me through a scene that I had envisaged in my head, and if you look through the micro-fictions above theres not much physical movement in the scenes they depict. In fact, The Star is the only piece which contains more than one physical location, and I think this is important in dissecting my portfolios specific tropes. It became quite clear to me that all of the journeys were not really journeys at all  they could almost all be contained within one image. For me that is the fundamental method, if any, that I always try to adopt (deliberately, I suppose) when Im writing for enjoyment. My mind works in images, I see stories, I dont let them unfold in my head, theres no exposure time, theyre pretty much instant.

I think that makes me a limited writer in many ways. I tend to not cope well with genres and styles of writing that fail to make me happy after producing them. Given that, perhaps the way I approach writing is my strength, in that I am certainly proud of the work included in my portfolio, and have shown it to many people that I would never have approached before to share something so intrinsically me.

In all honesty I have struggled throughout this course. This year, so far, has been the toughest yet. Not necessarily due to the work set or the modules being any more sophisticated, just that personally I have found it harder to motivate myself to approach the hurdles I face every day. My portfolio has really been one of the few things that has kept me going, and the feedback I have received has really made the difference some days. I like to think that character is defined not in victory, but in defeat. The majority of my days here at Salford, where I have felt defeated, I can retreat into my corner, take up a pen and reveal my innermost self despite the fact I find it hard to look people in the eye when having a perfectly normal conversation. This has been my biggest achievement in this module, and throughout English and Creative Writing. There is definitely a bravery inside me that wants to communicate how I feel, and these stories are all a part of that: they are an encrypted message that, despite the fact no one will truly receive them, make me feel heard.

If I have learnt anything about writing, I have learnt to write in the way that makes me happy. That is not to say I wont try genres or styles that challenge me, just that there has to be a passion and hopefully a need to create. Plus of course Ive found a genre of writing that will not only keep me going productively, but also add to my to read list.

Whats next for me is probably more of the same. I am very pleased with what I have created so far. I am tempted to attempt something a bit longer with the same spirit as what I feel I have captured in my micro-fiction. On one of my previous modules I discovered Ian McEwan, who writes much longer versions of what I have attempted. His book First Love, Last Rites was one of a list that really felt like nothing else I had ever read. Ever since I read it I have wanted to emulate it, to replicate its success. His success, I think, is really the suspension of uneasiness throughout the book that bridges all of the short stories within. It is this captivation that included me so much when reading it that moved me, and of course the true litmus test was that I really hated coming to the end of such a well-crafted journey. Im saying all this because I want to try and convey my intention for next year. If I have any ambition it is definitely to create longer pieces of writing that retain the feel of micro-fiction but last longer.





Drafts
The Wolf
The wolf climbed the stairs with its teeth bared. I hid beneath my sheets as if I was made of the same cloth, but the wolf didnt know I could see it. It tiptoed to the top and stopped, pivoting on itself and looking towards my room. Saliva dripped from its readied fangs, and made every hair on my body stand to attention. It had come to this.

The scariest thought was that I was the wolf.

The Star
And now the dark was rising. Screeches and screams came from within, and it was hard to tell beast from man. The jungle was alive and groaning. But now he was free.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

The dark in this place was unlike any other hed experienced before  it gave one the impression that you could see farther with ones eyes shut. Not only that, the insatiable crawling movement felt all around the climbing limbs of the trees added to the symphony of life that petrified even the strongest of hearts in the dead of night, especially if it was a new sensation.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

Gunshots echoed through and over the vast expanse of this maze. He knew they would come after him. It was said they knew this labyrinth better than a man knows his own town, it wouldnt take them long. Another man had begged him not to go, theyll kill us all, he insisted.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

Something huge fell from the canopy nearby. He froze. It took a few seconds but it jumped to its feet and ran through the nearest clearing, wailing as it thumped over the ground. Then nothing but the vibrating hum of everything else. The sound of water came to him through the noise. He followed it carefully, feeling with his feet as he found his way over the unpredictable terrain. It seemed like an eternity had passed, but he came to a clearing and made out a busy stream that bobbled along carelessly through the forest. He dropped to his knees and gladly threw water into his face with his hands. He made his way under a rock by the stream and waited.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

Hours passed. He drifted in and out of sleep. He thought he heard a man scream nearby but after a few moments it repeated and turned out to be some kind of monkey, he thought. Water-dwellers made a nice change from the tree-crawlers that had engulfed him. Their creaks and groans soothed him in and out of consciousness.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

He began to pray. Thoughts of loved-ones back home had pierced the fright of the darkness and all the beastliness around him. Tears welled in his eyes. Screams persisted. Minutes then hours passed, his knees locked in place.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

A magnificent light zipped across the sky, lighting-up the entire jungle, showing every tree and tributary. It cracked into the jungle across the stream so hard that a huge tree fell loudly and disturbed all the life around it. Animals sang, boomed and cried all around. For a moment all was deadly quiet, every man and animal stopped for a second, then continued their busy noise.

TAKKA! TAKKA!

But he still saw it. Across the stream, through the seemingly impenetrable jungle, it was glowing.

The Light
Out of the murk the car leered. She turned the knob and listened for a legible voice, but the radio couldnt penetrate the dense cloud. All she heard was the wail and cry of the radio static. The car gave out a few coughs from within its own guts, lurching forward every time it sneezed and grumbled until it gave way on the last, and gave up its struggle. The engine died and it came rolling to a halt as she steered it off the road. Her ears had become used to the mechanical workings of the car from within its belly and now that they were silent, she began to be afraid. She had a book on the seat beside her. She picked it up, turned the first few leaves and read to herself: Silence is the new scream.

Minutes passed like hours and she checked the rear-view mirrors to see if anything was creeping up on her. There was a monster right behind her, hairy with its teeth bared, but there was nothing real; she blinked and it had gone. She wondered to herself why she wanted to be scared, why her mind wanted there to be monsters and ghouls like she had written about in her books. She decided to wait for someone to pass and get their attention. Someone would help. Although, she thought, shed never stopped another car. It thrilled her to think of the danger of asking a stranger for help. She locked the doors of her car.
It got dark. Nobody had passed. She couldnt believe it. Countless times she had been on this road behind five or even ten cars with maybe the same behind her, all in sight. Now, when she needed just one, none passed. It was eerie. She had heard nothing in such a long time that the ringing in her ears had become deafening. She turned on the interior light and took a pen from her bag. With it she scrawled on her hands and arms out of nervousness. She drew flowers and rainbows in the half-light until her arms were covered with the sketches. She pressed so hard her arms were red raw from the pressure. The whole time the fog had grown thicker, denser. It pressed against the windows of the car and peered in at her.

She was now genuinely scared of being alone. The thrill and the romance of fear had now gone, and fear alone was left. She heard a noise outside, voices, several of them coming closer. She turned the interior light off and shrank down in her seat, tears streaming from her eyes. She could hear the mud under the feet of whoever it was, coming closer and closer. Figures now pressed against the windows of her car, peering in. She froze in hope of not being seen. A man opened the door and put his head into the car, turning on the interior light. He sat in the drivers seat and bent round. Nothing. On the passengers seat sat a book. He opened it up and read to himself: Silence is the new scream.

The Dream
That ones like Italy she says, with a frown.
That ones like your mother he says. They both laugh. The sun is beating down on them, and makes it seem warmer than it is.
I like the ones that climb into the sky. Like the clouds you draw when youre five. He smiles. Hes always loved her childish side.
A warm breeze flows over them like a wave on the shore.
I love the sea. The air is so different. It feels like home she adds. A man walks past with a dog.
Lets move here then, he says through a smile. She twists her neck to look at him.
Seriously? she asks, in a higher pitch.
Why not. He holds his hands to his forehead like a baseball cap. They are both laid on a grassy mound that is angled towards the sun and the sea. They are both completely naked. She turns back toward the sun, squinting through a smile.
I love you so much. She says. Their hands cross and clasp together like an old womans purse.

That ones sharp. I dont like the sharp ones. They should all be big round beasts she says, tickling her flat stomach. The sun momentarily goes behind a cloud, and its as if someone has drawn a giant curtain on the world. The wind goes from mild to bitter, and they both shrink into their bodies for a moment like tortoises. There is an explosion of light, and the suns blade comes stabbing through the atmosphere and through their skin; they are revived. The wind is restored as if its being blown over hot coals. They are smiling so hard, or is it a frown? Its too hard to tell.

Listen, he says after five or ten minutes of silence I know youre having a hard time with your work and your family. I want something for you to look forward to. She looks bemused, but interested. You know Im a dreamer, but dreams can be good. Not all of them are overdone. He stands up. He has something in his hand. She cant quite see because the sun is too bright. He moves closer to her, blocking the sunshine. She can make out his silhouette.
Marry me, Kate. The sound of the sea is impenetrable for a moment.
Yes. I will. They embrace. He hasnt given her the ring yet, its still in his hand, in the case. He is jumping and shouting, the rind flies from its little velvety box. His inane yelling turns into some loud intake of air, as if hes been plunged into ice water. He is reaching, out-stretched. He is falling. Down. Out of sight. He is gone. Her face is aching from the smile/frown, or it was. Now it feels almost nice as her face contorts into ugliness. Screaming. Raising. She is too late, she looks over the drop only to see his body strewn upon the rocks like a chalk outline.

She wakes sharply. It is cold, and she has fallen asleep on her arm, which she cannot feel. She is one her side, and looks up and out to sea. Her belly is spilling over her jeans  she sucks it in. The clouds have turned from magnificent white balloons to streaky, jagged furrows like those on top of a shepherds pie, forked-in. She turns over when her arm lets her, and he is there. He is fatter, and asleep. She goes to feel his pocket, but there is no velvet box. The wind stabs against her skin. Hes there, but hes not the same.
The Desert
Twenty minute shifts were arranged for the sentries that stood on-guard in the watch-towers, for that was as much as any man could stand in the heat of the midday sun. The fortification had resisted invasion for over a century; some questioned the need for it at all, some said that the enemy wouldnt come across the sands but from the sky itself. The sun, and its beating rays were the enemy. A man clad with dust climbed the stairs of the inner wall, to the tower. When he reached the top he took his water container and tipped it towards the sky, showering his face in warm, slightly salty water. It far from quenched his thirst. The sentry whose shift was ending hung his head in a dose, pulling it back up when he realised a superior might see him and berate him in front of the other men. He stood to attention when the new sentry spilled water all over the stone floor, thinking he was that superior. He sighed with relief when he realised it was his old friend. The new sentry took the binoculars and patted his friend on the back as he passed down the stairs.

The binoculars felt dusty in his hands as he lifted them to his face. Then again, everything got sand in it  watches stopped because sand clogged-up the mechanics inside, food tasted of it when chewed and sometimes a man could feel it passing out as he took a piss. There was a joke among the men that the air they breathed was fifty-percent sand. He peered through the lenses and out as far as the horizon went. Nothing but sand. Any direction you faced was filled with sand underfoot. The nearest town was three days away.

There must have been sand on the lenses. He rubbed at them with one of his sleeves. The heat rising from the floor of the desert created waves that distorted a mans sight across a great distance, and he was trying to look some ten miles into the distance. He thought he could make out a dark shape that flittered and danced in among the waves of heat. Perhaps it was an optical illusion. Most men didnt bother using the binoculars because they knew theyd see something that wasnt there and get a reputation for being out of his tree. A man held a lot of respect in the base if the other men didnt suspect him raving mad. The general protocol was to stand there and pretend you were scouring the horizon whilst actually trying to rest enough to feel better for it but not actually losing consciousness and falling forty feet to the floor.

It grew, and came closer, he was sure of it. The next man came to take his post. He climbed down the stairs and filled his water container from the well. He sat nervously in the shade watching the tower, to see if the new sentry spotted the figure in the distance. Nothing. He stood in the tower and squinted into the distance. With the binoculars he could now visibly make out a shape  it was a man! All day he had been out there, dragging his feet forward toward this fortification. Time passed, the sentry refused to be replaced, the replacements laughed and turned around back down the stairs.

The figure was now in sight to the naked eye, but no other sentry had spotted it. It grew with every minute and was now less than a mile away. It was a tall figure covered with black robes that lunged from one foot to the other, leaning as it progressed. Still the sentry told no one. He felt compelled to watch every step as the figure got within a few hundred yards of the door to the base.

A gust of wind came across the desert, seemingly from nowhere, that lifted the sand from the floor and into the air. Nobody could see through this instant, unpredictable storm that rendered every man deaf and blind for its duration. The sentry fell to the floor of the tower, sheltering from the violent combination of wind and sand. As quick as it came, the storm died. Sand fell from the air like rainfall. The sentry climbed to his feet and peered down at the gates where he last saw the figure. All that remained were the black robes, strewn across the sand, limp, figureless.
